TODOs.md, before:


- [ ] Design folder structure for everything

    journals/
        remotes/
        locals/
        manager/
            JSON data for stored state of journal manager
            - journal byte offsets
            - local identifier (s)
            - remote file versions

    object-history-db/
        sqlite stuff or JSON data

    object-cache-db/
        sqlite stuff or JSON data

- [ ] Test JournalManager
    - [x] Break out the sync logic so that it's functional

        - input
            - local identifier
            - local versions dictionary
            - remote versions dictionary

        - output
            - list of files to push
            - list of files to pull

    - [ ] Design the data used for each test

        - [x] SYNCING TESTS
            - need to set local versions dictionary
            - need to set remote versions dictionary

        - [ ] FETCHING TESTS
            - simulate each journal's total diff count
            - each journal will return an .insert diff with identifier of "N" where N is the journal index 
              - it's true that the diffs are repeated .inserts that would never happen in real life, but we're not testing that
              - timestamp will be a 1 second offset from some reference point so that we can test that it's the diff index we want
            - when each journal "read" is called, we just compute how many diffs to return, the starting index (for the timestamp
              creation) and then we create that many diffs


    - [ ] Make a list of tests that JournalManager should undergo

        SYNCING tests

        - we have no local files and no remote files and we do a sync
            => no data transfer should occur

        - we have one local journal and no remotes and we do a sync
            => local journal should be pushed up

        - we have one local journal and remote knows about its same version
            => local journal should NOT be pushed up

        - we have one local journal and remote knows about an older version
            => local journal should be pushed up

        - we have one remote file and not locally
            => we should pull it down
            => the local known version should be updated

        - we have one remote file and not locally and we call sync twice
            => we should pull it down just the first time
            => the second time should be a no-op

        - we have one remote file and have it locally at same version
            => we should NOT pull it down

        - we have one remote file and have it locally at different version
            => we should pull it down

        - we have two remote files, one we have locally at same version and one we don't know about
            => we should only pull down one we don't know about

        - we have two remotes that we don't have locally
            => we should pull both down

        - we have local file and remote doesn't exist, we have two remotes that we don't have locally
            => we push push local up
            => we should pull both remotes down

        - we have remote files and they no longer exist remotely ...
            => we should leave alone the local copy of the remote files ??
            => we should NOT push up the local copy of the remotes

        SYNCING ERROR scenarios

        - we get remote versions of files, but it errors out
            => we should error the sync immediately

        - we get remote versions okay, but pushing local file errors
            => we should error out after pushing
            => we should NOT update local version dictionary

        - we get remote versions okay, we push local okay, but pulling remotes causes one to error (1st of 3)
            => we should have one error
            => other remotes should be updated still

        - we get remote versions okay, we push local okay, but pulling remotes causes one to error (2nd of 3)
            => we should have one error
            => other remotes should be updated still

        - we get remote versions okay, we push local okay, but pulling remotes causes one to error (3rd of 3)
            => we should have one error
            => other remotes should be updated still

        FETCH LATEST DIFFS TESTS
        note: the diff contents for these tests don't actually matter because we don't even process them
        here. We just care that we return the number of diffs that are available from a journal.

        - test that we never try to get from the local journal. create a local journal and fill it with diffs,
          then call fetch latest
          => should return no results

        - have one remote journal with no entries
          => should return no results

        - have one remote journal with 1 entry
          => should return 1 diff

          call it again
          => should return 0 diffs

        - have one remote journal with maxDiffs - 1 entry
          => should return maxDiffs - 1

          call it again
          => should return 0 diffs

        - have one remote journal with maxDiffs
          => should return maxDiffs

          call it again
          => should return 0 diffs

          => should return 1 diff

        - have one remote journal with maxDiffs + 1 entry
          => should return maxDiffs

          call it again
          => should return 1 diff (the last one)

          call it again
          => should return 0 diffs

        - have two journals with 1 diff in each
          => should return 1 diff from each journal

        - have two journals with first having 1 entry, second with 5
          => should return 6 diffs

        - have two journals, first with maxDiffs + 1, second with 1
          => should return maxDiffs

          call again
          => should return 2 diffs (one from each journal)


        - have three journals, each with maxDiffs + 1
          => should return maxDiffs

          call again
          => should return maxDiffs

          call again
          => should return maxDiffs

          call again
          => should return 3 diffs

          call again
          => should return 0 diffs

        - test that if we do NOT call CallbackWhenDiffsMerged() method, the journal byte offsets do NOT update

        - test that if we DO call CallbackWhenDiffsMerged the byte offsets update
            - test with one journal
            - test with two journals

    - [x] Break out code that actually does the operations so it takes the output of the above and processes
          each stage separately

          - note: it will still need to do the fetch diffs operation at the end

    - [ ] Implement saving
        - [ ] ObjectCache saving
            - [ ] InMemObjectCache
                - [ ] save to a URL path a json file
                - [ ] restore from a URL path

            - [ ] SqliteObjectCache
                - [ ] initialize with path to sqlite database
                    - create it if necessary
                        - each entry will just be
                            - identifier (hopefully we can use our own UUID)
                            - type column
                            - timestamp
                            - properties JSON payload
                - [ ] save ? 

        - [ ] ObjectHistoryTracker
            - [ ] InMem version
                - [ ] save histories to json file
                - [ ] save list of pending updates to json file
            - [ ] SQlite version
                - [ ] initialize database
                    - each entry is just
                        - processing state
                        - next diff index to process (only if non-replay style, otherwise will be 0)
                        - diffs as a JSON array
                - [ ] generate pending from scratch when loading file ?? might be inefficient to go
                      through every object EVER
                      - [ ] Could store last time we processed updates and find all histories that were updated since then
                    - if a history for an object has a processing state that has nextDiff > total diffs OR is .replay,
                      add it to the list of pendingUpdates

    - [x] JournalManager journals[] dictionary should be [String : UInt64] where each value
          is a byte offset into the file stream, nothing more. We should not store "cursor"
          information anymore. Just use a byte offset.

          Nothing needs to use the nextDiffIndex!

    - [x] JournalManager should not know about journal readers even...
        - Just write a JournalFileManager.readNextDiffs(for identifier: String, at byteOffset: UInt64) -> Result
          - and from the Result, you can get
            - diffs
            - next byte offset
            - (maybe EOF data)

    - [ ] Implement the *real* JournalFileManager
        - [ ] Should "own" journal readers which it routes to via readNextDiffs()
        - [ ] Implementation details:
            - local journals in local/
            - remote journals for syncing in remote/

    - [x] JournalManager should not know about journal WRITERS either...
        - just write a JournalFileManager.append(diff: ObjectDiff, to identifier: String)

    - [x] Update JournalManagerStoredState so that it doesn't have JournalReaderState, but String : UInt64 too


- [ ] Make remote file sync and diff pulling work
    - [ ] Test file sync - syncFiles(completion:)
    - [ ] Test grabbing latest diffs from journals - fetchLatestDiffsWithoutSync

    - [ ] Before pushing local file, be sure latest edits are saved to disk

    - [ ] Remote file sync
        - [x] Push local journal only if remote is old
        - [ ] Fail early if local push fails
        - [ ] Fetch all remotes that
            - are newer than what we have
            - don't exist locally

    - [ ] See if our fetchLatestDiffsWithoutSync can compute the percent of diffs processed out of all pending somehow... ???
        - maybe it can be based on the number of journals we know have changed ??

    - [ ] fetchLatestDiffs
        - [ ] It should be possible to do file syncing optionally
            - if remote hasn't been set up yet
            - if we know we're not on the internet
            - if we know there are pending local changes and we don't want to
              slow things down by first syncing remote files

              - [ ] Move remote file sync to its own method with a completion callback
                - On success (or failure), we execute the "get latest diffs"

        - [ ] Write get latest diffs algorithm:

            - while num diffs collected < MaxDiffsPerTransaction
                - fetch N diffs from next journal that has some
                - add new cursor position to "potential cursor updates"

            - if we hit max diffs per transaction, set a flag that "there may be more results" and pass it back to
              the completion for fetchLatestDiffs

            - if we collected > 0 diffs,
                - call completion for processing diffs
                - provide it with a callback to let us know when it's done applying the changes (and saving them)
                - once it calls our callback,
                    - update the cursor positions for the journals we played back
                    - save those cursor positions

- [ ] Add support for rotating local identifiers
    - Requirements:
        - if local file gets too big, update local identifier
        - must still be able to push local journals even if they are not the current one

Commit message:

Add some unit tests for fetching remotes and syncing

TODOs.md, after:


- [ ] Design folder structure for everything

    journals/
        remotes/
        locals/
        manager/
            JSON data for stored state of journal manager
            - journal byte offsets
            - local identifier (s)
            - remote file versions

    object-history-db/
        sqlite stuff or JSON data

    object-cache-db/
        sqlite stuff or JSON data

- [ ] Test JournalManager
    - [x] Break out the sync logic so that it's functional

        - input
            - local identifier
            - local versions dictionary
            - remote versions dictionary

        - output
            - list of files to push
            - list of files to pull

    - [ ] Design fetching multiple files at once and only completing once all are pulled down.

    - [ ] Design the data used for each test

        - [x] SYNCING TESTS
            - need to set local versions dictionary
            - need to set remote versions dictionary

        - [ ] FETCHING TESTS
            - simulate each journal's total diff count
            - each journal will return an .insert diff with identifier of "N" where N is the journal index 
              - it's true that the diffs are repeated .inserts that would never happen in real life, but we're not testing that
              - timestamp will be a 1 second offset from some reference point so that we can test that it's the diff index we want
            - when each journal "read" is called, we just compute how many diffs to return, the starting index (for the timestamp
              creation) and then we create that many diffs

            - In fact we just need to mock out the number of diffs to return on each request. We don't even really
              need to simulate the byteOffset, but it does help with the implementation...


    - [ ] Make a list of tests that JournalManager should undergo

        SYNCING tests

        x we have no local files and no remote files and we do a sync
            => no data transfer should occur

        - we have one local journal and no remotes and we do a sync
            => local journal should be pushed up

        - we have one local journal and remote knows about its same version
            => local journal should NOT be pushed up

        - we have one local journal and remote knows about an older version
            => local journal should be pushed up

        x we have one remote file and not locally
            => we should pull it down
            => the local known version should be updated

        x we have one remote file and not locally and we call sync twice
            => we should pull it down just the first time
            => the second time should be a no-op

            *** no need: we can just test that if local file is same as remote that nothing happens

        x we have one remote file and have it locally at same version
            => we should NOT pull it down

        x we have one remote file and have it locally at different version
            => we should pull it down

        x we have two remote files, one we have locally at same version and one we don't know about
            => we should only pull down one we don't know about

        x we have two remotes that we don't have locally
            => we should pull both down

        - we have local file and remote doesn't exist, we have two remotes that we don't have locally
            => we push push local up
            => we should pull both remotes down

        - we have remote files and they no longer exist remotely ...
            => we should leave alone the local copy of the remote files ??
            => we should NOT push up the local copy of the remotes

        SYNCING ERROR scenarios

        - we get remote versions of files, but it errors out
            => we should error the sync immediately

        - we get remote versions okay, but pushing local file errors
            => we should error out after pushing
            => we should NOT update local version dictionary

        - we get remote versions okay, we push local okay, but pulling remotes causes one to error (1st of 3)
            => we should have one error
            => other remotes should be updated still

        - we get remote versions okay, we push local okay, but pulling remotes causes one to error (2nd of 3)
            => we should have one error
            => other remotes should be updated still

        - we get remote versions okay, we push local okay, but pulling remotes causes one to error (3rd of 3)
            => we should have one error
            => other remotes should be updated still

        FETCH LATEST DIFFS TESTS
        note: the diff contents for these tests don't actually matter because we don't even process them
        here. We just care that we return the number of diffs that are available from a journal.

        - test that we never try to get from the local journal. create a local journal and fill it with diffs,
          then call fetch latest
          => should return no results

        - have one remote journal with no entries
          => should return no results

        - have one remote journal with 1 entry
          => should return 1 diff

          call it again
          => should return 0 diffs

        - have one remote journal with maxDiffs - 1 entry
          => should return maxDiffs - 1

          call it again
          => should return 0 diffs

        - have one remote journal with maxDiffs
          => should return maxDiffs

          call it again
          => should return 0 diffs

          => should return 1 diff

        - have one remote journal with maxDiffs + 1 entry
          => should return maxDiffs

          call it again
          => should return 1 diff (the last one)

          call it again
          => should return 0 diffs

        - have two journals with 1 diff in each
          => should return 1 diff from each journal

        - have two journals with first having 1 entry, second with 5
          => should return 6 diffs

        - have two journals, first with maxDiffs + 1, second with 1
          => should return maxDiffs

          call again
          => should return 2 diffs (one from each journal)


        - have three journals, each with maxDiffs + 1
          => should return maxDiffs

          call again
          => should return maxDiffs

          call again
          => should return maxDiffs

          call again
          => should return 3 diffs

          call again
          => should return 0 diffs

        - test that if we do NOT call CallbackWhenDiffsMerged() method, the journal byte offsets do NOT update

        - test that if we DO call CallbackWhenDiffsMerged the byte offsets update
            - test with one journal
            - test with two journals

    - [x] Break out code that actually does the operations so it takes the output of the above and processes
          each stage separately

          - note: it will still need to do the fetch diffs operation at the end

    - [ ] Implement saving
        - [ ] ObjectCache saving
            - [ ] InMemObjectCache
                - [ ] save to a URL path a json file
                - [ ] restore from a URL path

            - [ ] SqliteObjectCache
                - [ ] initialize with path to sqlite database
                    - create it if necessary
                        - each entry will just be
                            - identifier (hopefully we can use our own UUID)
                            - type column
                            - timestamp
                            - properties JSON payload
                - [ ] save ? 

        - [ ] ObjectHistoryTracker
            - [ ] InMem version
                - [ ] save histories to json file
                - [ ] save list of pending updates to json file
            - [ ] SQlite version
                - [ ] initialize database
                    - each entry is just
                        - processing state
                        - next diff index to process (only if non-replay style, otherwise will be 0)
                        - diffs as a JSON array
                - [ ] generate pending from scratch when loading file ?? might be inefficient to go
                      through every object EVER
                      - [ ] Could store last time we processed updates and find all histories that were updated since then
                    - if a history for an object has a processing state that has nextDiff > total diffs OR is .replay,
                      add it to the list of pendingUpdates

    - [x] JournalManager journals[] dictionary should be [String : UInt64] where each value
          is a byte offset into the file stream, nothing more. We should not store "cursor"
          information anymore. Just use a byte offset.

          Nothing needs to use the nextDiffIndex!

    - [x] JournalManager should not know about journal readers even...
        - Just write a JournalFileManager.readNextDiffs(for identifier: String, at byteOffset: UInt64) -> Result
          - and from the Result, you can get
            - diffs
            - next byte offset
            - (maybe EOF data)

    - [ ] Implement the *real* JournalFileManager
        - [ ] Should "own" journal readers which it routes to via readNextDiffs()
        - [ ] Implementation details:
            - local journals in local/
            - remote journals for syncing in remote/

    - [x] JournalManager should not know about journal WRITERS either...
        - just write a JournalFileManager.append(diff: ObjectDiff, to identifier: String)

    - [x] Update JournalManagerStoredState so that it doesn't have JournalReaderState, but String : UInt64 too


- [ ] Make remote file sync and diff pulling work
    - [ ] Test file sync - syncFiles(completion:)
    - [ ] Test grabbing latest diffs from journals - fetchLatestDiffsWithoutSync

    - [ ] Before pushing local file, be sure latest edits are saved to disk

    - [ ] Remote file sync
        - [x] Push local journal only if remote is old
        - [ ] Fail early if local push fails
        - [ ] Fetch all remotes that
            - are newer than what we have
            - don't exist locally

    - [ ] See if our fetchLatestDiffsWithoutSync can compute the percent of diffs processed out of all pending somehow... ???
        - maybe it can be based on the number of journals we know have changed ??

    - [ ] fetchLatestDiffs
        - [ ] It should be possible to do file syncing optionally
            - if remote hasn't been set up yet
            - if we know we're not on the internet
            - if we know there are pending local changes and we don't want to
              slow things down by first syncing remote files

              - [ ] Move remote file sync to its own method with a completion callback
                - On success (or failure), we execute the "get latest diffs"

        - [ ] Write get latest diffs algorithm:

            - while num diffs collected < MaxDiffsPerTransaction
                - fetch N diffs from next journal that has some
                - add new cursor position to "potential cursor updates"

            - if we hit max diffs per transaction, set a flag that "there may be more results" and pass it back to
              the completion for fetchLatestDiffs

            - if we collected > 0 diffs,
                - call completion for processing diffs
                - provide it with a callback to let us know when it's done applying the changes (and saving them)
                - once it calls our callback,
                    - update the cursor positions for the journals we played back
                    - save those cursor positions

- [ ] Add support for rotating local identifiers
    - Requirements:
        - if local file gets too big, update local identifier
        - must still be able to push local journals even if they are not the current one
